# Syntax & Semantics
This is the beginning of everything for PHP :) We will discuss the basic code syntax down to some of the core programming references.

## Language Constructs
Language constructs are hard coded into the PHP language. They do not play by normal rules.

Example of this are  `if`, `for`, `while`, `function`, and so on. Other examples for language constructs that could be mistaken for functions are `array()`, `list()` and `each()`.

## Code Block
A code block is a **list of statements grouped as one unit.**

```
<?php
echo "Hello World";
?>
```

## Comments
A comment in PHP code is a line that is not executed as a part of the program. Its only purpose is to be read by someone who is looking at the code.

Syntax for single-line comments:
```
<?php
// This is a single-line comment

# This is also a single-line comment
?>
```
Syntax for multiple-line comments:
```
<?php
/*
This is a multiple-lines comment block
that spans over multiple
lines
*/
?>
```

## Data Types
Variables can store data of different types, and different data types can do different things.

PHP supports the following data types:

- String
- Integer
- Float (floating point numbers - also called double)
- Boolean
- Array
- Object
- NULL
- Resource

## Constants
Constants are like variables except that once they are defined they cannot be changed or undefined.

A valid constant name starts with a letter or underscore (no $ sign before the constant name).

**Note:** Unlike variables, constants are automatically global across the entire script.

Create a constant and print its value:
```
<?php
const MY_CONSTANT = 5;
echo MY_CONSTANT;
?> 
```
### Defining a constant
Create a constant with a **case-sensitive** name:
```
 <?php
define("GREETING", "Welcome to W3Schools.com!");
echo GREETING;
?> 
```
Create a constant with a **case-insensitive** name:
```
 <?php
define("GREETING", "Welcome to W3Schools.com!", true);
echo greeting;
?> 
```

In PHP7, you can create an Array constant using the define() function.
```
 <?php
define("cars", [
  "Alfa Romeo",
  "BMW",
  "Toyota"
]);
echo cars[0];
?> 
```
