# Data Types

Variables can store data of different types, and different data types can do different things.

## String
Strings are a series of characters, which should sound fairly simple. That said, there are a few different types of strings and they offer slightly different syntax, with slightly different behaviors.

### Single Qoutes
Single quotes are used to denote a “literal string”. Literal strings do not attempt to parse special characters or variables.

```
// Outputs: This will not expand: \n a newline
echo 'This will not expand: \n a newline';
```

### Double Qoutes


Double quotes are the Swiss Army Knife of strings. They will not only parse variables as mentioned above, but all sorts of special characters, like \n for newline, \t for a tab, etc.

## Integer
An integer data type is a non-decimal number between -2,147,483,648 and 2,147,483,647.

Rules for integers:

- An integer must have at least one digit
- An integer must not have a decimal point
- An integer can be either positive or negative
- Integers can be specified in: decimal (base 10), hexadecimal (base 16), octal (base 8), or binary (base 2) notation

In the following example $var is an integer. The PHP var_dump() function returns the data type and value:

```
<?php
$var = 1234;
var_dump($var);
?>
```

## Float
A float (floating point number) is a number with a decimal point or a number in exponential form.

In the following example $var is a float. The PHP car_dump() function returns the data type and value:

```
<?php
$var = 12.345;
var_dump($var);
?>
```

## Boolean
A Boolean represents two possible states: TRUE or FALSE.
```
$var1 = true;
$var2 = false;
```
Booleans are often used in conditional testing.

## Array
An array stores multiple values in one single variable.

In the following example $cars is an array. The PHP var_dump() function returns the data type and value:
```
<?php
$cars = array("Volvo","BMW","Toyota");
var_dump($cars);
?>
```

## Object
**Classes** and **Objects** are two main aspects of object-oriented programming.

A **Class** is a template for objects, and an **Object** is an instance of a class

When the individual objects are created, they inherit all the properties and behaviors from the class, but each object will have different values for the properties.

Let's assume we have a class named Car. A Car can have properties like model, color, etc. We can define variables like $model, $color, and so on, to hold the values of these properties.

When the individual objects (Volvo, BMW, Toyota, etc.) are created, they inherit all the properties and behaviors from the class, but each object will have different values for the properties.

If you create a __construct() function, PHP will automatically call this function when you create an object from a class.

```
<?php
class Car {
    public $color;
    public $model;
    public function __construct($color, $model) {
        $this->color = $color;
        $this->model = $model;
    }
    public function message() {
        return "My car is a " . $this->color . " " . $this->model . "!";
    }
}

$myCar = new Car("black", "Volvo");
Echo $myCar -> message();
echo "<br>";
$myCar = new Car("red", "Toyota");
echo $mycar -> message();
?>
```

## Null Value
Null is a special data type which can have only one value: **NULL**.

A VAriable of data type **NULL** is a variable that has no value assigned to it.

**Tip:** If a variable is created without a value, it is automatically assigned a value of **NULL**.

Variables can also be emptied by setting the value to **NULL**:
```
<?php
$var = "Hello World!"l;
$var = null;
var_dump($var);
?>
```

## Resource
The special resource type is not an actual data type. It is the storing of a reference to functions and resources external to PHP.

A common example of using the resource data type is a database call.