# Variables
Variables are **containers** for storing information.

## Creating (Declaring) PHP Variables
In PHP, a variable starts with the `$` sign, followed by the name of the variable:
```
$txt = "Hello world!";
$x = 5;
$y = 10.5;
```

## PHP Variables
A variable can have a short name (like x and y) or a more descriptive name (age, carname, total_volume).

Rules for PHP variables:

- A variable starts with the `$` sign, followed by the name of the variable
- A variable name must start with a letter or the underscore character
- A variable name cannot start with a number
- A variable name can only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores (A-z, 0-9, and _ )
- Variable names are **case-sensitive** (`$age` and `$AGE` are two different variables)

## Output Variables

The PHP `echo` statement is often used to output data to the screen.

The following example will show how to output text and a variable:

```
$txt = "W3Schools.com";
echo "I love " . $txt . "!";
```

# Variable Scope
In PHP, variables can be declared anywhere in the script.

The scope of a variable is the part of the script where the variable can be referenced/used.

PHP has three different variable scopes:
- Global
- Local
- Static

## Global
A variable declared **outside** a function has a **Global Scope** and can only be accessed outside a function:
```
<?php
$x = 5; // Global scope

function myTest() {
    // using x inside this function will generate an error
    echo "<p>The value of x is: $x</p>";
}
myTest();
echo "<p>The value of x is: $x</p>";
?>
```

## Local
A variable declared **within** a function has a **Local Scope** and can only be accessed within that function:
```
<?php
function myTest() {
    $x = 5; // Local scope
    echo "<p>The value of x is: $x</p>";
}
myTest();

// using x outside the function will generate an error
echo "<p>The value of x is: $x</p>";
?>
```

## The Global Keyword
The `global` keyword is used to access a global variable from within a function.

to do this, use the `global` keyword inside the function:

```
<?php
$x = 5;
$y = 10;
function myTest() {
    global $x, $y;
    $y = $x + $y;
}
myTest();
echo $y; // output 15
?>
```

## The Static Keyword
Normally, when a function is completed/executed, all of its variables are deleted. However, sometimes we want a local variable NOT to be deleted. We need it for a further job.

To do this, use the `static` keyword when you first declare the variable:

```
<?php
function myTest() {
    static $x = 0;
    echo "$x <br>";
    $x++;
}
myTest(); // output: 0
myTest(); // output: 1
myTest(); // output: 2
?>
```

## Global Variables - Superglobals
Some predefined variables in PHP are **superglobals**, which means that they are always accessible, regardless of scope - and you can access them from any function, class or file without having to do anything special.

The PHP superglobal variables are:

### $GLOBALS
An associative array containing references to all variables which are currently defined in the global scope of the script. The variable names are the keys of the array. 
```
<?php
$x = 75;
$y = 25;
function addition() {
  $GLOBALS['z'] = $GLOBALS['x'] + $GLOBALS['y'];
}
addition();
echo $z;
?> 
```

### $_SERVER
is a PHP super global variable which holds information about headers, paths, and script locations. 
```
<?php
echo $_SERVER['PHP_SELF'];
echo "<br>";
echo $_SERVER['SERVER_NAME'];
echo "<br>";
echo $_SERVER['HTTP_HOST'];
?>
```
### $_REQUEST
is a PHP super global variable which is used to collect data after submitting an HTML form.
### $_POST
An associative array of variables passed to the current script via the HTTP POST method when using application/x-www-form-urlencoded or multipart/form-data as the HTTP Content-Type in the request. 
```
<?php
echo 'Hello ' . htmlspecialchars($_POST["name"]) . '!';
?>
```
### $_GET
An associative array of variables passed to the current script via the URL parameters (aka. query string). Note that the array is not only populated for GET requests, but rather for all requests with a query string. 
```
<?php
echo 'Hello ' . htmlspecialchars($_GET["name"]) . '!';
?>
```
### $_FILES
An associative array of items uploaded to the current script via the HTTP POST method. The structure of this array is outlined in the POST method uploads section. 
### $_ENV
An associative array of variables passed to the current script via the environment method. 
```
<?php
echo 'My username is ' .$_ENV["USER"] . '!';
?>
```
### $_COOKIE
An associative array of variables passed to the current script via HTTP Cookies. 
```
<?php
echo 'Hello ' . htmlspecialchars($_COOKIE["name"]) . '!';
?>
```
### $_SESSION
An associative array containing session variables available to the current script. See the Session functions documentation for more information on how this is used. 